# cautious-carnival
This is a repo to support my own personal project with WS2812B LED strips to support a INMP441 MEMS microphone operate a strip or ring of WS2812B LEDs. This program operates under the assumption of an ESP32 WROOM-32 microprocessor with its own 3.3v power supply and a SEPARATELY powered WS2812B (5V) strip of LED lights using a pin off of the microcontroller to control the color and intensity of the associated LEDs. This code has the ability to support 8, 16, 24, & 32 band equalizer. My experience has been that anything above 16 seems to miss some frequency bands, but that is very music/volume dependent. The LED strip that this code lights up should be a whole number multiple of the number of bands. It will light them up with an intensity normalized against the intensity and volume of each band. By default, it targets the R/G/B colors because I'm lazy. I will probably extend it in the future to spread the colors out over a longer spectrum if my needs/desires change, but I absolutely welcome anyone else to extend this to cover a wider color spectrum. By default, it splits the length of the LED strip up into 3 not necessarily equal pieces, aligns an LED to a band, and uses the intensity of that band as an intensity of R, G, or B. The result is a strip that flows from Red to Blue with Red covering the lower part of the spectrum. Anyone should be able to figure out how to change that around pretty easily, but I may try to make that easier in future as I have bandwidth. This work was not performed in a vaccuum and has extremely large parts taken in part or whole from several other projects

https://github.com/atomic14/esp32_audio

https://community.element14.com/challenges-projects/element14-presents/project-videos/w/documents/27805/making-a-wifi-connected-audio-spectrum-analyzer-with-esp32----episode-570?CMP=SOM-YOUTUBE-PRG-E14PRESENTS-e14Presents-570

These 2 projects were absolutely pivotal to this code existing and parts are outright stolen to my own ends.
